# A month's worth of labelled Active Window Tracking data
This repo contains publicly-available process data from an academic, namely me (Iris). Specifically, it contains one month's worth of so-called Active Window Tracking (AWT) data. AWT data sits in between UI logs and traditional single-system event data. It is a recording of the apps that I used on the computer and the titles of the screens I had active over the course of four weeks in 2023, namely March 6 to April 2. For the recording, I used a tool called Tockler (http://maygo.github.io/tockler/), which has been running on my computer since December 2022. It logs application title, window title, start time and end time, without having to manually activate a recording.  

## Related publication
In our 2023 ICPM paper, we performed a first exploration of this data and reflected on the opportunities that the data brings for mining work practices. We found that it helps capture previously-unrecorded work activities, expose the relations between work processes, and navigate between different levels of data granularity. We refer to the paper for more details: 

Beerepoot, I., Barenholz, D., Beekhuis, S., Gulden, J., Lee, S., Lu, X., ... & Reijers, H. A. (2023, October). A Window of Opportunity: Active Window Tracking for Mining Work Practices. In 2023 5th International Conference on Process Mining (ICPM) (pp. 57-64). IEEE.

## Description of the data
This repository contains a labelled subset of my AWT data. The labelling was done locally in Excel, by exporting the data from Tockler and adding two columns to the log, one for the corresponding activity and one for the case. We deductively selected activities from the University Job Classification system used by Dutch universities (https://tinyurl.com/msbef7bx). Examples of such activities are ‘Assessing exams and giving marks’, and ‘Conducting research’. When I could not fit the behaviour within the existing activities, I created a new activity. Examples of added activities include ‘Communicating about events’, ‘Planning teaching activities’, and ‘Reviewing journal and conference papers’. I selected the cases inductively, e.g., courses that I taught, students that I supervised, research papers that I worked on, events that I organised, etc. Finally, I created an anonymous version of the data, where I replaced names and other sensitive information with placeholders. The result of this can be found in the data folder, with postfix _Step 5_ (which includes 10,066 rows, i.e., window titles). 

**Disclaimer:** Please be nice on me and my data. Although I replaced some of the information in there with placeholders, there might still be sensitive information present. I would appreciate people letting me know if they find something that should not be public.

The remaining files in the data folder contain versions in which I applied some processing. The Python notebook contains details on the steps that I took. In _Step 6_, I merged all sequential events with the same activity label, resulting in an abstracted event log (with 1,227 events). In _Step 7_, I added a Duration column to calculate the duration between the start and end time, and in _Step 8_ I added a case type attribute. 

Depending on the use case, you might want to work with the detailed window titles in _Step 5_ or the final abstracted data in _Step 8_. If you are interested in, e.g., a technique that automatically recognises higher-level tasks performed based on (a set of) window titles, you would want to have a look at the _Step 5_ CSV. If you want to explore the data with process mining techniques immediately, you better check out _Step 8_. 

## Questions
Do not hesitate to reach out to me (i.m.beerepoot@uu.nl) if you have any questions or if you want to test any techniques that you trained this data on. There is a lot more data where this came from, but not enough time to manually anonymise it. 
